# edat/edat2 txt parser


## AW's version with main functions called edatR() and eMergeR():
This is an adjusted version of the edat 2 txt parser created by Ahebrank (original readme text below). 

The main changes are the addition of an emerger() function to read/parse/merge multiple .txt. files at once, and a replaced text file read and parse routine in edat() renamed edatR() ) so that .txt files containing symbols and trials nested several levels deep can be parsed too. 

#Ahebranks' original edat() readme:
This is a package for reading in [E-Prime](http://www.pstnet.com/eprime.cfm) data files (well, the txt recovery files generated by E-Prime scripts during an experiment). It's for those needing to analyze large batches of edats, don't have access to PST's data utility E-DataAid, or don't have Windows. As far as I know, PST does not make the format of the binary .edat/.edat2 files publicly available, so this is all just guesswork.

Inspiration for this utility and credit for early versions of the code go to [canlab's MATLAB implementation](https://github.com/canlab/CanlabCore/blob/master/Misc_utilities/parse_edat_txt.m), developed in 2010 by Joe Wielgosz.

Use at your own risk! I have a limited number of test cases, most of which were produced by the same E-Prime programmer (me!).  Please use the issue tracker to report bugs or submit test cases.

## Getting Started

The easiest way is to use devtools' `install_github` function.

### One-time install

```
> install.packages('devtools')
> devtools::install_github('AWKruijt/eMergeR')
```

### Using the merger and single file parser:

```
library('emerger')

#parse and merge all .txt files in current working directory:
df <- emerger()
df <- as.data.frame(df)

#parse and merge merge all .txt files in the folder 'deeptest' that sits within the current wd:
df <- eMergeR(dir = "deeptest") 
df <- as.data.frame(df)

#parse and merge merge all .txt files for which filename includes "sumbol" that sit in the folder 'deeptest' within the current wd:
df <- eMergeR(filenameContains = "symbol", dir = "deeptest")
df <- as.data.frame(df)


# parse single file:
e <- edatR('Flanker-1001-1.txt')
dat <- as.data.frame(e)

dim(dat)
head(dat)
```
